Let's actually add this MDX support here
we're gonna add a few different things.
The first thing that we're gonna add is a,
let's stop this development server.
We're gonna install some stuff so
we're gonna install a source plugin for
the file system.
The reason for that We're gonna keep
our posts in another folder here.
So let me close the open editors.
And we're gonna create
a folder called posts.
Now I want this folder to work
just like the pages folder where
whatever we put in here
becomes a page in Gatsby.
In order to do that, we need to
like Gatsby only looks for pages.
So we need to make this
a special directory.
And we're gonna do that with a combination
of Gatsby source file system,
which will let us look up files.
And then we're also going to use
a plugin called page creator.
And what page creator does is it
lets us set any page in the site
to have the same properties
as the pages directory so
anything inside of this
should be created as a page.
We also are gonna need
the Gatsby plugin for MDX.
And then we need MDX itself so MDXJS/MDX.
We're also gonna need the react
flavor of MDX so, MDX js react.
Right, so
this is seems like a lot of stuff.
This one is so that we can actually
load files into the Gatsby data layer.
This one is so that we can turn any
folder into a special folder of
files that will get turned into pages.
The Gatsby plugin MDX which
is going to turn our files,
from just plain old files,
it'll actually enable MDX support.
And then the MDX things so
that we can use the MDX core and
the react additional things that we
need to use it in a react project.
So let's get those installed.
And next, once we've got those installed,
we're gonna go into our Gatsby config and
add support for these.
So inside of this array we're going
to let me get this scaffolded and
then I'll talk about what it actually is.
So, by default,
if you just put in the name of a plug in,
Gatsby will run that
plug in with no options.
This is a shorthand.
It's for convenience so that you don't
have to write out these big old objects
every time you wanna do a plugin.
But if a plugin does need configuration,
then we tell it to resolve
the name of the plugin.
So in our case, we're gonna start
with Gatsby source file system.
And then we can pass options to it.
So in our case, we're gonna give
this group of files a name,
we're gonna call them posts.
And we're going give them a path
of the dirname that's the current
directory name, and
we're looking source and posts.
So we're trying to find this directory and
load all the files in it
into Gatsby's file system.
So then we wanna make sure that Gatsby
will actually create pages from the pages
that are found in there.
So we're gonna set up Gatsby
plug in page creator.
And for the options on that,
we're actually gonna pass
in the same path we want this
dirname source posts and
that will cause Gatsby to
not only find these and
load them into graph QL.
But actually turned them into pages with
their own address that matches the name of
the file.
Next, we want to transform those files
from just plain old files into MDX nodes.
And we do that using Gatsby plug in MDX.
Let me scroll up here and
for the options on
this; we're gonna start by
giving it a default layout.
Actually, you know what,
let's start without a default layout and
then we'll come back in and look at it so
that we can show the difference.
So we'll add that in.
Okay, so now that we've got this,
we've got our file system we've got
the page creator, we've got plugin MDX.
Let's go ahead and
add our first blog post.
So let's add to I'm gonna add
one called first blog and
we use the dot MDX extension to
signify that it is in fact MDX.
So we'll give this some basic markdown.
This is my first blog post.
All right, we can save that.
Two exclamation boys is too many.
All right, let's go.
Let's go in here and do another blog.
Blog mdx, and in this one,
we will say, dang,
this blog is even better
than the last one.
All right, so now we've got
two blog posts, both are mdx.
And you can see here we're not using
any mdx features we've just added in
plain old markdown and
one of the reasons to use mdx
it will actually add some react
stuff a little bit later on, but.
I really like this setup,
because what we've just done if
we start the server here again,
is we have created the ability
to now add these files in and
again, all we've done here is we've said.
Hey, Gatsby look in the file
system in this posts folder and
create something called posts and
then use your page creator to
make pages out of anything in this
post directory and look for MDX.
So, now that we've created this,
if we look in here, everything is running.
Now I'm gonna go to that 404 page again.
So I can just type in 404 and
it'll say hey, that's not a page.
And down here I can see here's our first
blog and our another blog that we created.
Okay, so this is fine ish.
It looks like it picked up
our default styles, but
it's not quite what we're after we're
missing our header and all those things.
And what we could do and
this is a pain is we could go in here and
we could say let's import layout
from components layout.js,
and then we will export default layout.
Is that gonna work?
No, it wouldn't be like that.
It would be like this.
It has to be a component like this.
So we would do layout and
then inside we would send the children,
which means we have to get
the children as a prop.
I don't ever do this, so I'm trying
to remember exactly how it works.
There it is.
Okay, so upon doing this,
by doing a default export we've
provided a kind of a layout here.
And if we wanted to do something like,
this is part of my blog.
Then we can add custom markup.
And this is all fine, right?
But this is kind of,
I want to do that for every blog post.
So instead what we can do is we
can get rid of that entirely.
And we can come back out here and
I wanna set a default layout.
So inside of Gatsby, plugin MDX,
one of the options that I have
is to set a default layout And so
I'm gonna say default layouts.
And for posts, this needs to match this.
That's how that works.
And we're gonna say required.resulve,
required.resolve is a way
to get the node Internals to give you
like the absolute path to a file.
So what we're doing is we
are doing the required.resolve
to source components, layout.js, right?
So now, we've got a default layout set and
see our Gatsby saying we need to
restart because we change the config.
I love this feature so we can hit OK.
And it's gonna restart
the development server for us.
And when it's done,
which we can watch happen over here.
What we should see happen is the page
in the background is gonna refresh and
it will actually use that layout.
So check that out.
We have our first blog post.
So I'm happy about this.
We've got, our blog post is here.
It has the header.
And again, we did not have to make
like we didn't have to add the layout.
It's just there.
And if we go to the other one, so
let me go back to this 404 page,
click through to another blog.
And there it is no
changes to another blog.
Which again, no layout included, but
because we set a default it brings it in.
Now we can override this if we wanted to
go back into the first blog, and instead
of using the layout, I could just set it
as like a div and get rid of this layout.
Then, this one stays the same
because we didn't edit it.
But the first blog now it
doesn't have that setup, right?
So we can optionally override whenever
if we need custom layouts, but
by default, it'll use the same one.
And that is a really nice feature that's
a really slick way to get this up
and running.
So this to me is a really powerful
workflow because with fairly minimal
confide you know we like I know we
had to get into Gatsby confide here.
And we had to add you know three plugins
and this can feel like a lot I think
that one of the most overwhelming
parts of working with Gatsby can be.
There's a lot of config it can start
to feel like it's hard to track
what's going on.
One way that you can group this is
you can actually just go in here and
start adding comments
to let yourself know.
This set of plugins is to enable creating
MDX blog posts from the src/posts folder,
right?
And then down here,
you can do end of MDX config.
And then more config down here.
So if you start to notice that you're
getting overwhelmed by the amount of
things you're putting
into your Gatsby config.
Leave yourself some signposts like let
yourself know why you did something or
why it's configured the way it is.
Our site is not particularly complex, so
I'm not gonna stress too much
about doing all of that but.
>> Is there a way to make that generic so
that it would pick up multiple
folders not just posts would
I have to double that config?
>> The the part that gets tricky
about this is the more generic these
are the harder they are to track.
So there's something to be said for
being pretty explicit about,
what you're loading, and why.
But again, this kinda comes
down to personal preference.
The other thing to consider,
is if you just did that, it would work.
But then you'd have in your graph
QL layer a bunch of extra stuff.
But if we create another
folder inside of posts like,
let's call this a series and
I let's copy one of these.
Call this one like post one.
This will get picked up in here.
So if I go here now to series
post one it works.
So if you put a folder in all of the sub
folders will also get parsed and
that's where this ignore option comes in.
If you want it to ignore specialty
stuff like this one saying,
ignore anything that starts with a dot.
Or you could say, I only want to get
things that have the.page.JS suffix,
if you want it to do
something kind of mixed.
It's generally speaking easier to be
pretty explicit about like this is
a folder for pages.
So that then your folder directories tend
to line up pretty one to one like, okay,
I'm in posts, so this means that
the URL will be /seriespost1.
And that way you don't have to remember
like, yeah, it'll work like that except
for this one that we ignored
because it's for utilities.
Like if you've got utilities,
pull them out of the post folder and
put them somewhere else.
And in that way, you don't have to have
these like exclusions and special cases.
Generally speaking,
like The easier you make it on yourself,
the happier you'll be in the long term for
maintenance.
>> Is there any way to pass like metadata
with the config other than just wrapping
it in a layout tag and
then passing it to the props?
>> Yep.
We're actually gonna do that right now I
think.